>> Scott Moss: So
far we have the routes and the models.
Now we need to hook our
routes up to our models, so
we can perform CRUD on the models
based on the routes + the verbs.
That's exactly what controllers do.
So you're gonna be creating
the generic CRUD resolvers,
you're gonna create controllers for
the item resources using the base generic
CRUD resolvers that you just created, and
you're gonna ensure that all test paths
by running the test command, as always.
So basically, what I'm saying is,
if you go over to utils > crud.js,
after you check out to lesson-4,
>> Scott Moss: And
you go over to utils > crud.js,
you'll see a few things in here.
There's about five functions in
here that are completely empty,
they don't do anything.
Because these are generic controllers, or
because they're controllers in general,
they have a signature of request response.
Cuz that's just how controllers
in middleware work and Express.
But there's another function before them.
This function is because they're generic,
we've got to pass any model
to the controller itself,
because we won't know what the model is.
The model might be an item, it might be
a user, it might be a whatever, a list.
So we have to pass that model in, and
then those controllers get created.
So that's just because like I said,
we abstracted these and them generic.
But that part you don't really
have to concern yourself with,
the only part that you have to concern
yourself with is actually creating
the controllers themselves.
So for a getOne we know that we wanna
be able to do a model.findOne or
a model.findID.
So for instance, in the case of you
wanna be able to find by an ID if
you go back here, so FindByID.
We're expecting an ID here.
If we go to our routes,
>> Scott Moss: Item router,
you can see that we have
this parameter ID here.
So how do we get the access to that
ID inside of our controller so
we can use it in our database queries?
Well, if we go to our controllers,
you will be able to access
that ID on the request.
So if you req.params,
that's an object of all
the parameters on a URL, whether it's a
slash id, whether it's a create parameter
that somebody unexpectedly sent up,
Express creates all that stuff for you.
So in this case we have
a parameter called ID.
That means, if it's passed, there'll be
something on the request called request
dot params dot whatever this name is.
In this case, ID.
If this was called thing,
then it would be req.params.thing.
If this was called whatever,
then you get the point.
So in this case it's ID.
So we'll have access to the ID that's
passed by doing request.params.id.
And that's how we get that ID that we can
pass to a getOne or a put or a deleteOne.
>> Scott Moss: The other params,
there aren't any other params, so
you won't have any issues with that.
But again, if somebody put create params,
like a question mark after the URL,
pass it up, Express will merge all of
those into the params object, too.
So there'd be collisions, so
that's just one thing to take note of.
So yeah, you're basically, you're going to
create the functionality, given a model.
All you have to do is just create the CRUD
functionality based on the model queries
that I just showed you for
these controllers.
And the tests are testing for that.
There are some specific tests in there,
they have some really good.
They're really good documented, so
if we look at the ones for
the CRUD which in crud.spec.
You'll see getOne,
it finds authenticated users.
It's doing a lot of different stuff here.
So you'll have to test all of this, or
you'll have to get all these test passed
in order to move forward, and again,
they're pretty well documented here.
If you run the test here we can see.
>> Scott Moss: I'll say yarn run,
npm run tests-controllers,
I believe, yes.
>> Scott Moss: Get a whole
bunch of failing tests here.
We scroll up.
You're gonna have two suites
of failing tests, most likely.
So you'll have the generic CRUD
controllers that are failing.
So it's looking for
all these things to be satisfied, and
then you have the ones failing based
off of you not adding the controllers
to the actual item's
controller file itself.
So the items controller file,
which is where I wrote all this stuff, for
you it'll just be empty, it's like almost
nothing here, it's like an empty object.
You gotta fill that out with the generic
controllers that you created and
pass in the right model.
And if you get lost on that,
there's examples inside of, like list,
if you like list controller.
You can kinda see what
I'm talking about here.
>> Scott Moss: So if you get those
to pass, you should be good.
One thing to note is if we go over to
the CRUD controllers or the test here.
It's gonna be expecting there to be
some user object on the request object,
and it's gonna be looking for that.
So that means you're gonna have to
write your controllers in a way that
it expects a user to come in.
Cuz the next thing we're gonna
be doing is authentication, so
these controller are aware
of that authentication.
So just like I said, middleware can
attach things to the request object.
In this case, these controllers
are assuming that there is a user object
attached to the request object, and
that's how it's gonna be identifying
that you can or cannot do something.
So some of the tests you might
see finds authenticated user.
Finds by authenticated user and ID.
So in this case, it's expecting to query
by a user ID which is created by,
and a parameter ID.
So it's doing a combination of both.
But that's basically what's
it's expected to do.
So the test will tell you what to do.
And you can see that if it doesn't
find it, it expects it to 404.
So you'll have to use
the response object and
set the status to be a 404
if you don't find something.
So you might have to do some try catches,
or you might have to do a .din or
.catch in your premises
to figure that out.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this?
So there's only five functions
you have to fill out.
And then the next thing you have to do is
just add it to the item controllers.js,
which is very similar to
the list controllers.js.
It's almost identical, the only
difference is the model that you pass in,
which will be the item model.
>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Could you put up the code
again that shows where you connect to
the database?
>> Scott Moss: You won't have to connect
to the database in this one, but
I can show you, yeah.
You shouldn't have to do it.
The only reason I had to connect to the
database because I was running just that
one file.
Outside of the application, so
I had to connect to the database, but
you're gonna be running
your code in the context.
Yeah, exactly, so you should be fine.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.